README.md, before:

This readMe file is created along with the journey of learning the Spring Security concepts.
# Spring-Security
Spring-security concepts

|Security pillers | Description |
| ------ | ------ |
| Authentication | Who are you ? This can be knowledge base or posession based. |
| Authorization | What do you want ? Are you authorized to access this ? |
| Principal | Once you logged in to the system, "principal" will store credentials of user. |
| Granted Authority | What they can do i.e. place_order/do_checkOut. Authority to perform certain operation.|
| Roles | Basically, a group of authority so that it can be well managed and easily assignable to anyone. |

**spring-boot-starter-security** - it is responsible to provide all APIs related to spring security in our application.

## What spring-boot-starter-security will provide ?
Once you will add this maven dependency, you will get
1. Input form for username/password
2. Validation for the same
3. If you have not provided any username/passoword then Spring will generate one password for user "*User*" everytime you will start the spring application.
4. Username & password can be configured via providing following properties in application.properties file OR application.yml file :
	```
	spring.security.user.name=<userName>
	spring.security.user.password=<password>
	```

## Congifuring Spring-Security
### AuthenticationManager
Authentication manager manages authentication.
```
authenticate()
```
Authenticate() method perform authentication on uesr and return if user  is successfully authenticated or throws exception.

### AuthenticationManagerBuilder
This is a builder pattern. You should use it to configure authentication for your application.
It is a 2 steps process :
1. Get hold of **AuthenticationManagerBuilder**
2. Set the configuaration on it.

### Extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter
```
configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder)
```
When you extend this class, spring framework gives you opportunity to override **configure()** method where you will get instance of **AuthenticationManagerBuilder**, You can now modify it and pass your spring security configuration as per the requirement.
It is 2 step process to configure builder instance :
1. Tell which type of authetication you want i.e. inMemoryAuthentication()
2. Pass user, password & role.

Example :
```
	@Override
	protected void configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth) throws Exception {
		auth.inMemoryAuthentication()
			.withUser("hiren")
			.password("hiren")
			.roles("User");
	}
	
	/**
	 * Clear text password is strict NO in Spring.
	 * Just for tutorial purpose we are passing this.
	 * @return
	 */
	@Bean
	public PasswordEncoder getPasswordEncoder() {
		return NoOpPasswordEncoder.getInstance();
	}
```

### Configuration Authorization using HttpSecurity
- We will be configuring who will access WHAT !!
- One user would be having one specific role and the other will be having the other specific role.
- We will use again the same method we used to configure authentication which is **configure()** method.
```
configure(httpSecurity)
```
**httpSecurity** can be used to configure authorization here.

Following will be our user-role mapping :
|API end point | Roles allows to access it |
| ------ | ------ |
| / | All (unauthenticated) |
| /user | USER/ADMIN roles |
| /admin | ADMIN role |
```
http.authorizeRequests()
			.antMatchers("/**").hasRole("ADMIN")
			.and().formLogin();
```
In above code snippet :
1.  "/**" means any URL and any nested URL.
2. hasRole("ADMIN") means all URLs (in this case) are only accessible by users who has ADMIN role.

Below code snippet is the more advance version :
```
@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http.authorizeRequests()
			.antMatchers("/admin").hasRole("ADMIN")
			.antMatchers("/user").hasAnyRole("ADMIN", "USER")
			.antMatchers("/").permitAll()
			.and().formLogin();
	}
```
Here,
1. Higher & more restrictive role must come at the first place and then less restrictive.
2. If you will not follow point number 1 then Spring security may not behave as per your configuration.

### Author
---

[Hiren Savalia](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hiren879/)

Commit message:

Updating readMe for authenticationManager, authenticationProvider and Principal

README.md, after:

This readMe file is created along with the journey of learning the Spring Security concepts.
# Spring-Security
Spring-security concepts

|Security pillers | Description |
| ------ | ------ |
| Authentication | Who are you ? This can be knowledge base or posession based. |
| Authorization | What do you want ? Are you authorized to access this ? |
| Principal | Once you logged in to the system, "principal" will store credentials of user. |
| Granted Authority | What they can do i.e. place_order/do_checkOut. Authority to perform certain operation.|
| Roles | Basically, a group of authority so that it can be well managed and easily assignable to anyone. |

**spring-boot-starter-security** - it is responsible to provide all APIs related to spring security in our application.

## What spring-boot-starter-security will provide ?
Once you will add this maven dependency, you will get
1. Input form for username/password
2. Validation for the same
3. If you have not provided any username/passoword then Spring will generate one password for user "*User*" everytime you will start the spring application.
4. Username & password can be configured via providing following properties in application.properties file OR application.yml file :
	```
	spring.security.user.name=<userName>
	spring.security.user.password=<password>
	```

## Congifuring Spring-Security
### AuthenticationManager
Authentication manager manages authentication.
```
authenticate()
```
Authenticate() method perform authentication on uesr and return if user  is successfully authenticated or throws exception.

### AuthenticationManagerBuilder
This is a builder pattern. You should use it to configure authentication for your application.
It is a 2 steps process :
1. Get hold of **AuthenticationManagerBuilder**
2. Set the configuaration on it.

### Extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter
```
configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder)
```
When you extend this class, spring framework gives you opportunity to override **configure()** method where you will get instance of **AuthenticationManagerBuilder**, You can now modify it and pass your spring security configuration as per the requirement.
It is 2 step process to configure builder instance :
1. Tell which type of authetication you want i.e. inMemoryAuthentication()
2. Pass user, password & role.

Example :
```
	@Override
	protected void configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth) throws Exception {
		auth.inMemoryAuthentication()
			.withUser("hiren")
			.password("hiren")
			.roles("User");
	}
	
	/**
	 * Clear text password is strict NO in Spring.
	 * Just for tutorial purpose we are passing this.
	 * @return
	 */
	@Bean
	public PasswordEncoder getPasswordEncoder() {
		return NoOpPasswordEncoder.getInstance();
	}
```

### Configuration Authorization using HttpSecurity
- We will be configuring who will access WHAT !!
- One user would be having one specific role and the other will be having the other specific role.
- We will use again the same method we used to configure authentication which is **configure()** method.
```
configure(httpSecurity)
```
**httpSecurity** can be used to configure authorization here.

Following will be our user-role mapping :
|API end point | Roles allows to access it |
| ------ | ------ |
| / | All (unauthenticated) |
| /user | USER/ADMIN roles |
| /admin | ADMIN role |
```
	http.authorizeRequests()
			.antMatchers("/**").hasRole("ADMIN")
			.and().formLogin();
```
In above code snippet :
1.  "/**" means any URL and any nested URL.
2. hasRole("ADMIN") means all URLs (in this case) are only accessible by users who has ADMIN role.

Below code snippet is the more advance version :
```
	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http.authorizeRequests()
			.antMatchers("/admin").hasRole("ADMIN")
			.antMatchers("/user").hasAnyRole("ADMIN", "USER")
			.antMatchers("/").permitAll()
			.and().formLogin();
	}
```
Here,
1. Higher & more restrictive role must come at the first place and then less restrictive.
2. If you will not follow the point number 1 then Spring security may not behave as per your configuration.

## How internally Spring performs authentication & authorization ?
### Filters
When you add spring security dependency, Spring will automatically start intercepting all the incoming requests using **DelegatingFilterProxy** before delegating it to servlets.
So there are two specific filters which performs authentication and authorization.

### Authentication using filters
When Spring start authentication it takes credentials as input and returns **principal** as output. Object type will be **authentication**.

Here is the method signature from interface **AuthenticationProvider**
```
Authentication authenticate(Authentication authentication)
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2741709/125129805-a0064a00-e11d-11eb-87d5-821c2371044e.png)
As shown in above image :
1. First filter will intercept the incoming request
2. Then it will pass the credential to the **AuthenticationManager**
3. Authentication manager then identify the implementation.
4. Based on **AuthenticationProvider** it will use credential storage resources to authenticate the the user and returns the **Principal** object in the form of Authentication object.
5. It will be then stored in the **ThreadLocal** object to extract user related information like username, password, isAuthenticatd boolean etc.


### Author
---

[Hiren Savalia](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hiren879/)
